DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE. GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA
MEDIA BULLETIN
DATED:21 /03/2020	Status update: 8 PM
In view of Covid-19 global pandemic, the state of Telangana has strengthened surveillance, contact tracing and containment measures against the possible spread of disease.
Till date Twenty-One (21) positive cases of COVID-19, New confirmed cases on 21.03.2020= Two (2) cases
Appeal to Public:
>	The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Act No 3 of 1897 was invoked in Telangana state.
>	Honorable Chief Minister has appealed the public to stay indoors and refrain from going out so that spread of virus can be prevented. Hence, all citizens are requested to remain indoors and stay at home between 6AM on 22.03.2020 to 6AM on 23.fi3.2020.
> The Public is requested to stay calm and not panic. State is taking all the measures to contain the spread of the virus to protect and safeguard the public.
> Any person who has returned from any foreign country or has been in Transit through a foreign country, shall be in self-home quarantine for 14 days from the time of arrival in India irrespective of having any symptoms or not.
> Any person who has been in contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 or is family contact of any person returning from a foreign country must remain in home isolation for next 14 days.
>	The contacts of the positive shall get tested for covid-19 even if symptoms do not exist between 4th to 15th day of contact.
>	To self-notify at the nearest government hospital immediately after the onset of Symptoms.
> To call 104 health help line for all queries pertaining to Covid-19.
> The public are requested to avoid travel, gatherings, crowded areas.
> To maintain personal hygiene, hand hygiene, social distancing, cough etiquette. All measures to prevent spread of covid-19 have to be taken.
Action Taken by State:
>	The Chief Secretary Govt of Telangana held a VC with all Collectors and SPs to review the situation and instruct on further course of action.
> The containment process has started in Secunderabad area and will be completed in the next 2- days.
>	Hence forth Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Hyderabad will also be supporting the diagnostics.
Sd/-
Director Public Health & Family Welfare
Hyderabad, Telangana